We'd like to finish up the QiGong with a real
basic sitting and breathing exercise, a meditation
exercise. And this is, once again, something
that you can do at the end of your QiGong.
So we've showed you the warm up, we've showed
you some QiGong moves, and now we want to
finish our QiGong with just simply sitting,
breathing and doing a little bit of meditation.
And I'd like to talk about how do we do that?
Some, some of the real basic, simple things
to do. Find yourself a nice comfortable pad
to sit on. Remember to find yourself a quiet
place to do QiGong. You can turn on some music,
some soothing music, or absolutely have no
music and, and be able to have peace and quietness
though. The key ingredient, you have to have
peace and quiet because it's, you get more
benefit out of it if you do that. Okay, but
to close, we want to do a little breathing
meditation. Sit down with your feet, and those
of you who are extremely un-flexible, you
can sit with just simply crossing your legs,
just like this. Okay, but what I like to do,
is I like to show you what we call a half
lotus position. And in the half lotus position,
it helps to align your back a little bit more
in your meditation and it keeps you from slumping
over. Okay, so when we do the half lotus position,
what I'd like to demonstrate for you is, remember,
don't let anybody tell you that, "oh, you
have to do it this way, otherwise it's wrong."
We are all at different skill levels. And
if I don't do something exactly like someone
who's twenty years younger than me, it's okay.
We're going to benefit from these exercises.
Okay, so don't let anybody tell you, "oh,
don't do it that way, you should force your
legs way over here." Forget about it. Do it
according to your skill level. So in the half
lotus position, I'm going to sit and I'm going
to take my leg and I'm going to place one
leg on top of the other. Okay, if you have
a hard time and you're not as flexible, simply
just place one foot on top of the other foot
down here. Once you get more limber, then
you can bring it all the way up here. Okay,
so according to your skill level. You want
to be comfortable. You don't want to be in
pain when you're doing this. So put your feet
one on top of the other, and you'll see that
it helps you to keep your back straight. The
next thing that I like to do, is I'd like
for you to take your left hand and take your
right hand, put one hand on top of the other,
put the left hand on top of the right hand,
and touch the fingertips. Okay, the next you're
going to do, you're going to sit back, right
next to your dantian. Okay, right in your
lap next to your dantian with the fingers
touching. Close the eyes or keep the eyes
open, or keep them half open. Whatever it
is your choice. Remember, this is about you.
This is not about we have to do it this way,
we have to do it that way. This is about you.
Eyes open, eyes closed, whatever it is that
you feel is best. Then what I'm going to simply
do is, I'm going to simply breathe in and
breathe out. Breathe in, breathe out. And
follow the breath. As you breathe in, follow
that breath in. Remember that you're breathing
to the dantian so that your chest should not
rise, but the belly should rise. Breathe in,
breathe out. Follow the breath out. So to
simply sit and follow the breath in and follow
the breath out. Follow the breath in, follow
the breath out. Just stay focused on the breathing
of the breath in and the breath out. Okay,
and do that for a few minutes, do that for
a few minutes, so that you can finish your
exercise and feel completely at peace with
yourself when you're done.